Example ID: 51
Doc stem: 51
Date: June 3, 1959
doc_id_r: CIA-RDP79T00975A004500200001-9
doc_id_u: 3163338

=== CONTEXT (WITH <redaction n> TAGS) ===
Political Stalemate in Indonesia The Constituent Assembly's third rejection on 2 June of President Sukarno's proposal for the readoption of the 1945 constitution has created a political stalemate in Indonesia. Opposition to the constitution, under which both Sukarno and the army would gain increased political power at the expense of party activity, came from the Moslem parties, including the pivotal Nahdlatul Ulama party, which insisted on the incorporation of religious guarantees for the Islamic religion. The initiative now returns to President Sukarno and the army. Sukarno, now in the United States, will be met and briefed at his next major stop--Tokyo--probably on 6 June by Ruslan Abdulgani, head of the appointive national council and a Sukarno confidant. It has been speculated that the President's two-month world tour was timed to keep him uninvolved in the political maneuvers attending the constitutional debates and free to work out new arrangements if necessary. Although further attempts at compromise cannot be ruled out, army leaders have consistently hinted that they would take action to enforce the 1945 constitution if necessary, <redaction 1> <redaction 2> Nasution on 2 June banned all political activity, possibly as a preliminary move to further action. Prime Minister Djuanda had told the assembly that failure to accept the constitution might precipitate "undesirable events" similar to those which "have taken place in neighboring countries"--obviously a thinly veiled warning of an army take-over.

=== REDACTIONS ===
[redaction 1] Army Chief of Staff General Nasution was assured nationwide officer support for some such move
[redaction 2] and a threatening aspect of army preparations has been the open discussion of the possibility of a coup

=== CONTEXT (REDACTIONS FILLED) ===
Political Stalemate in Indonesia The Constituent Assembly's third rejection on 2 June of President Sukarno's proposal for the readoption of the 1945 constitution has created a political stalemate in Indonesia. Opposition to the constitution, under which both Sukarno and the army would gain increased political power at the expense of party activity, came from the Moslem parties, including the pivotal Nahdlatul Ulama party, which insisted on the incorporation of religious guarantees for the Islamic religion. The initiative now returns to President Sukarno and the army. Sukarno, now in the United States, will be met and briefed at his next major stop--Tokyo--probably on 6 June by Ruslan Abdulgani, head of the appointive national council and a Sukarno confidant. It has been speculated that the President's two-month world tour was timed to keep him uninvolved in the political maneuvers attending the constitutional debates and free to work out new arrangements if necessary. Although further attempts at compromise cannot be ruled out, army leaders have consistently hinted that they would take action to enforce the 1945 constitution if necessary, Army Chief of Staff General Nasution was assured nationwide officer support for some such move and a threatening aspect of army preparations has been the open discussion of the possibility of a coup Nasution on 2 June banned all political activity, possibly as a preliminary move to further action. Prime Minister Djuanda had told the assembly that failure to accept the constitution might precipitate "undesirable events" similar to those which "have taken place in neighboring countries"--obviously a thinly veiled warning of an army take-over.
