Example ID: 41
Doc stem: 41
Date: March 31, 1959
doc_id_r: CIA-RDP79T00975A004400150001-6
doc_id_u: 3156030

=== CONTEXT (WITH <redaction n> TAGS) ===
Greek Elections (The United Democratic Left (EDA), legal front for the proscribed Communist party of Greece, is trying to make the municipal elections scheduled for 5 April a test of the pro-Western government's popularity.) (EDA leaders are seeking collaboration of non-Communist opposition parties in sponsoring joint slates of candidates for the municipal councils. While EDA has been rebuffed by spokesmen for several minor nationalist opposition parties, it apparently has achieved some success with Liberal leader Sophocles Venizelos. Venizelos, whose hatred of the government combined with his political opportunism make him a likely collaborator with the Communists, apparently has agreed to cooperate secretly with EDA in several municipalities. This co-operation, even if not effective in the council elections, may become evident in the subsequent election of mayors by the councilors.) (Venizelos, however, is spokesman for only one faction of the rapidly deteriorating Liberal party. Several prominent Liberals have denounced collaboration with EDA and are working with other nationalist leaders to defeat the Communists. This grouping may hold the balance of power in some cities if the elections result in approximately equal distribution of council seats between EDA and the government.) (The government favors holding "nonpolitical" elections, --emphasizing candidates rather than parties--apparently for fear that EDA, which captured 25 percent of the popular vote in the general elections in May 1958, has continued to gain strength among the electorate. EDA will probably gain new respectability from its association with the Venizelos wing of the Liberals. It will take credit for the victories of several non-Communist candidates and will probably increase its representation in local governments throughout Greece.)

=== REDACTIONS ===
(none)

=== CONTEXT (REDACTIONS FILLED) ===
Greek Elections (The United Democratic Left (EDA), legal front for the proscribed Communist party of Greece, is trying to make the municipal elections scheduled for 5 April a test of the pro-Western government's popularity.) (EDA leaders are seeking collaboration of non-Communist opposition parties in sponsoring joint slates of candidates for the municipal councils. While EDA has been rebuffed by spokesmen for several minor nationalist opposition parties, it apparently has achieved some success with Liberal leader Sophocles Venizelos. Venizelos, whose hatred of the government combined with his political opportunism make him a likely collaborator with the Communists, apparently has agreed to cooperate secretly with EDA in several municipalities. This co-operation, even if not effective in the council elections, may become evident in the subsequent election of mayors by the councilors.) (Venizelos, however, is spokesman for only one faction of the rapidly deteriorating Liberal party. Several prominent Liberals have denounced collaboration with EDA and are working with other nationalist leaders to defeat the Communists. This grouping may hold the balance of power in some cities if the elections result in approximately equal distribution of council seats between EDA and the government.) (The government favors holding "nonpolitical" elections, --emphasizing candidates rather than parties--apparently for fear that EDA, which captured 25 percent of the popular vote in the general elections in May 1958, has continued to gain strength among the electorate. EDA will probably gain new respectability from its association with the Venizelos wing of the Liberals. It will take credit for the victories of several non-Communist candidates and will probably increase its representation in local governments throughout Greece.)
