Example ID: 33
Doc stem: 33
Date: March 2, 1959
doc_id_r: CIA-RDP79T00975A004300110001-1
doc_id_u: 3023203

=== CONTEXT (WITH <redaction n> TAGS) ===
Balkan Pact to be Discussed in Tito-Karamanlis Meeting Greek Premier Karamanlis <redaction 1> intends to press Tito at their meeting on 2 March for a definite yes or no on revival of the Balkan Pact in "full vigor." <redaction 2> The Chief of the Greek General Staff, has counseled Karamanlis against such an approach to Tito, in the belief that the military relations between the two countries should not be stressed now and that a gradual evolution beginning in economic and cultural spheres would be more fruitful. The Yugoslavs are currently very sensitive on the question of the pact. They are especially afraid that revival of its military aspects would provide ammunition for the bloc's charges that Yugoslavia, contrary to its pretensions of remaining outside blocs, is tied to NATO by virtue of its membership in the Balkan Pact. Belgrade also feels that a publicized revival of the pact now would undermine the basic purpose of Tito's tour of the uncommitted countries, as an exponent of "positive neutrality." For these reasons, Belgrade hopes to soft-pedal the military aspect of the pact but it wants to maintain and possibly even extend the pact's economic and cultural aspects. The pact, composed of Greece, Yugoslavia, and Turkey, was ratified in 1953 and became a formal military alliance in the following year. Since 1955, however, when hostility arose between Greece and Turkey over Cyprus, the pact's military committee has had little to do, and the pact organization has concerned itself primarily with economic and cultural matters. The recent Cyprus accord has removed a major obstacle to the pact's effectiveness and the recent worsening of Belgrade's relations with the bloc have made it seek improved ties with the West. While all three participants consider the continuance of the Balkan Pact to be in their interests, any renewed activity under the pact will probably not be publicized out of deference for Yugoslavia's difficult position.

=== REDACTIONS ===
[redaction 1] that the Balkan pact be pressed on Tito
[redaction 2] he intends to press Tito at their meeting on 2 March for a definite yes or no on revival of the Balkan Pact in "full vigor."

=== CONTEXT (REDACTIONS FILLED) ===
Balkan Pact to be Discussed in Tito-Karamanlis Meeting Greek Premier Karamanlis that the Balkan pact be pressed on Tito intends to press Tito at their meeting on 2 March for a definite yes or no on revival of the Balkan Pact in "full vigor." he intends to press Tito at their meeting on 2 March for a definite yes or no on revival of the Balkan Pact in "full vigor." The Chief of the Greek General Staff, has counseled Karamanlis against such an approach to Tito, in the belief that the military relations between the two countries should not be stressed now and that a gradual evolution beginning in economic and cultural spheres would be more fruitful. The Yugoslavs are currently very sensitive on the question of the pact. They are especially afraid that revival of its military aspects would provide ammunition for the bloc's charges that Yugoslavia, contrary to its pretensions of remaining outside blocs, is tied to NATO by virtue of its membership in the Balkan Pact. Belgrade also feels that a publicized revival of the pact now would undermine the basic purpose of Tito's tour of the uncommitted countries, as an exponent of "positive neutrality." For these reasons, Belgrade hopes to soft-pedal the military aspect of the pact but it wants to maintain and possibly even extend the pact's economic and cultural aspects. The pact, composed of Greece, Yugoslavia, and Turkey, was ratified in 1953 and became a formal military alliance in the following year. Since 1955, however, when hostility arose between Greece and Turkey over Cyprus, the pact's military committee has had little to do, and the pact organization has concerned itself primarily with economic and cultural matters. The recent Cyprus accord has removed a major obstacle to the pact's effectiveness and the recent worsening of Belgrade's relations with the bloc have made it seek improved ties with the West. While all three participants consider the continuance of the Balkan Pact to be in their interests, any renewed activity under the pact will probably not be publicized out of deference for Yugoslavia's difficult position.
